# Chapter 2: Fundamental Concepts

## 2.1 The Core Operating System: The Kernel

### Tasks Performed by the Kernel

- Process scheduling: a computer has one or more central processing units (CPUs)\
  which execute the instructions of programs
  - Multitasking: Multiple processes can simultanously reside in memoery and \
    each may receive use of the CPU(s)
  - Preemptive: means that the rules governing which processes receive use \
    of the CPU and for how long are determined by the kernel process scheduler
- Memory management: Virtual memory management
  - Processes are isolated from one another and from the kernel, so that\
    one process can't read or modify the memory of another process or the\
    kernel.
  - Only part of a process needs to be kept in memory, thereby lowering\
    the memory requirements of each process and allowing more processes\
    to be held in RAM simultanously.
- Provising of a File System: The kernel provides a file system on disk\
  allowing files to be created, retrieved, updated, deleted, and so on
- Creation and termination of processes: The kernel can load a new program\
  into memory, providing it with the resources (e.g. CPU, memory and access \
  to files) that it needs to in order to run. Once a process has completed\
  execution, the kernel ensures that the resources it uses are freed for\
  subsequent reuse by later programs
- Access to devices: The devices attached to a computer allow communication\
  of information between the computer and the outside world, permitting input\
  output or both. The kernel provides pograms with an interface that standardizes\
  and simplifies access to devices, while at the same time arbitrating access by\
  multiple processes to each device.
- Networking: The kernel transmits and receives network messages (packets) on\
  behalf of user processes. This task includes routing of network packets to the\
  target system.
- Provision of a system call API: Processes can request the kernel to perform\
  various tasks using kernel entry points known as system calls.

## 2.3 Users and Groups

### Users

Users are defined by a unique login name (username) and a numeric user ID.
The following are defined by a line in the system password file: `/etc/passwd`

- Group ID: the numeric group ID of the first of the groups of which the user\
  is a member
- Home directory: the initial directory into which the user is placed after\
  logging in
- Login shell: the name of the program to be executed to interpret user commands
