# Why Study Cycles?

## Three General Areas

1. Trying to know more about the fundamentals of industries, companies and securities
   - Supply Chains, Supply & Demand Drivers, Credit Availability, Regulations, etc.
2. Being disciplined as to the appropriate price to pay for the participation\
   in those fundamentals
3. Understanding the investment environment we're in and deciding how to \
   strategically position our portfolios for it.

### What do value investors do?

- Strive to take advantage of discrepancies between "price" and "value"
  - Quantify an asset's intrinsic value and how it's likely to change over time
  - Assess how the current market price compares with the asset's intrinsic value\
     past prices for the asset, the prices of other assets, and \
    "theoretically fair" prices of the assets
- Portfolio optimization is a balanced aggressiveness/defensivess strategy
  - Should be adjusted over time in reponse to changes in the state\
    of the investment environment
  - Be aggressive when value is cheap. Be defensive when value is expensive

#### Think in terms of "Tendencies"

- Things that might happen or should happen
- How likely they are to happen

##### Risk

- Likelihood of permanent capital loss
- Opportunity risk - missing out on potential gains
- Knowledge advantage - knows more than others about the future tendencies

##### Questions on Market Cycles

1. Are we close to the beginning of an upswing, or in the late stages?
2. If a particular cycle has been rising for a while, has it gone so far\
   that we're now in dangerous territory?
3. Does investors' behavior suggest they're being driven by greed or by fear?
4. Do they seem appropriately risk-averse or foolishly risk-tolerant?
5. Is the market overheated (and overpriced), or is it frigid (and thus \
   cheap) because of what's been going on cyclically?
6. Take together, does our current position in the cycle imply that\
   we should emphasize defensiveness or aggressiveness?
